README.md, before:

# Sandscape User Documentation

> NOTICE: THIS DOCUMENTATION EXISTS WITHOUT ANY SOURCE CODE.  THIS PROJECT IS IN
> ALPHA STATE AND IS UNUSABLE AT THIS TIME.  WHEN THE PROJECT CATCHES UP WITH
> THE DOCUMENTATION THEN THIS NOTICE WILL BE REMOVED.  THIS IS MY STYLE OF
> WRITING DOCUMENTATION FIRST BEFORE CODE TO FLESH OUT IDEAS AND FIGURE OUT WHAT
> IS NEEDED TO ACCOMPLISH MY GOALS FOR THE PROJECT.

### About Sandscape

Sandscape is a set of [Jenkins Script Console][jenkins-sc] scripts which are
designed to run and configure a Jenkins instance.  It can run from [Jenkins init
hooks][jenkins-hook] (which runs every time Jenkins is restarted) or by calling
it via the Jenkins Script Console interactively.

Some advantages:

* Configuration is applied to the Jenkins runtime without requiring a restart.
* It has a pluggable architecture which allows Sandscape plugins to be
  dynamically loaded.  Sandscape plugins are the bits which actually configure
  Jenkins.

If you've not interacted with the Jenkins Script Console before, then I
encourage you to watch [this video][youtube-sc] presented and recorded by the
original author of Sandscape.

### Warnings and Recommendations

##### Warnings

It is _very_ *important* to understand all of the following points because
Sandscape operates within the Jenkins Script Console.  The Jenkins Script
Console:

* Is a web-based Groovy shell into the Jenkins runtime.  Groovy is a very
  powerful language which offers the ability to do practically anything Java can
  do including create sub-processes and execute arbitrary commands on the
  Jenkins master and slaves.  It can even read files in which the Jenkins master
  has access to on the host (like `/etc/passwd`).
* Offers no administrative controls stop a User once they are able to execute
  the Script Console from affecting all parts of the Jenkins infrastructure.
  Granting a normal Jenkins user Script Console Access is essentially the same
  as giving them Administer rights within Jenkins.
* Can configure any Jenkins setting. It can disable security, reconfigure
  security, even open a backdoor on the host operating system completely outside
  of the Jenkins process.
* Is so powerful because it was originally intended as a debugging interface for
  Jenkins developers.

Do not underestimate the capabilities of the Jenkins Script Console.  Remember,
Sandscape runs within the Jenkins Script Console.

Sandscape plugins make use of classes from Jenkins plugins to configure Jenkins.
Becuase of this, minor updates to Jenkins plugins can easily break Sandscape
plugins.

##### Recommendations

Recommendations for Jenkins:

Due to the tight integration Sandscape plugins require with Jenkins plugins, it
is recommended to adopt a strict process of updating Jenkins and Jenkins
plugins.  This also means disable the [Jenkins Update Site][sc-disable-jus].
The Sandscape project offers a template which can be used for this to [bootstrap
Jenkins and exact versions of plugins][ss-jenkins-bootstrap].  The Jenkins
bootstrapper also supports generating system packages for the Jenkins master.

Recommendations for Sandscape:

* It is _highly recommended_ that before you configure sandscape on your Jenkins
  instance, you review all of the source code.
* Mirror the Sandscape source code into a place you fully control.  This way
  updates to Sandscape will not go unreviewed.

Recommendations for Sandscape plugins:

* Before using any Sandscape plugin, you should completely review and understand
  its source code.  Sandscape plugins execute in the Jenkins Script Console as
  well so the same warnings above apply to them.
* Mirror any Sandscape plugin you plan to use into a place you fully control.
  This is so updates to the plugin sources don't affect your configuration and
  don't go unreviewed.

# Getting started

To set up Sandscape, clone [the Sandscape init repository][ss] and execute:

    git clone https://github.com/sandscape/sandscape.git
    cd sandscape/
    export JENKINS_CREDENTIALS="someuser:somepassword"
    export JENKINS_WEB="https://jenkins.example.com/"
    ./setup_sandscape.sh

`JENKINS_CREDENTIALS` must contain the credentials of a Jenkins administrator
and `JENKINS_WEB` is the location to an existing Jenkins instance.

Sandscape will not make changes to your Jenkins installation without a
`config.json` file, which dictates the configuration of a Jenkins instance.


[![Creative Commons License][cc-img]][cc-by-sa] This documentation is licensed
under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License][cc-by-sa].  See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

[cc-by-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[cc-img]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/80x15.png
[jenkins-hook]: https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Groovy+Hook+Script
[jenkins-sc]: https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Jenkins+Script+Console
[sc-disable-jus]: https://github.com/samrocketman/jenkins-script-console-scripts/blob/master/disable-all-update-sites.groovy
[ss-jenkins-bootstrap]: https://github.com/sandscape/jenkins-bootstrap
[ss]: https://github.com/sandscape/sandscape
[youtube-sc]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T1x2kCGRY1w

Commit message:

Add definitions and some more about Sandscape

README.md, after:

# Sandscape User Documentation

> NOTICE: THIS DOCUMENTATION EXISTS WITHOUT ANY SOURCE CODE.  THIS PROJECT IS IN
> ALPHA STATE AND IS UNUSABLE AT THIS TIME.  WHEN THE PROJECT CATCHES UP WITH
> THE DOCUMENTATION THEN THIS NOTICE WILL BE REMOVED.  THIS IS MY STYLE OF
> WRITING DOCUMENTATION FIRST BEFORE CODE TO FLESH OUT IDEAS AND FIGURE OUT WHAT
> IS NEEDED TO ACCOMPLISH MY GOALS FOR THE PROJECT.

### About Sandscape

Sandscape is a set of [Jenkins Script Console][jenkins-sc] scripts which are
designed to run and configure a Jenkins instance.  It can run from [Jenkins init
hooks][jenkins-hook] (which runs every time Jenkins is restarted) or by calling
it via the Jenkins Script Console interactively.

Some advantages:

* Configuration is applied to the Jenkins runtime without requiring a restart.
* It has a pluggable architecture which allows Sandscape plugins to be
  dynamically loaded.  Sandscape plugins are the bits which actually configure
  Jenkins.

If you've not interacted with the Jenkins Script Console before, then I
encourage you to watch [this video][youtube-sc] presented and recorded by the
original author of Sandscape.

### Warnings and Recommendations

##### Warnings

It is _very_ *important* to understand all of the following points because
Sandscape operates within the Jenkins Script Console.  The Jenkins Script
Console:

* Is a web-based Groovy shell into the Jenkins runtime.  Groovy is a very
  powerful language which offers the ability to do practically anything Java can
  do including create sub-processes and execute arbitrary commands on the
  Jenkins master and slaves.  It can even read files in which the Jenkins master
  has access to on the host (like `/etc/passwd`).
* Offers no administrative controls stop a User once they are able to execute
  the Script Console from affecting all parts of the Jenkins infrastructure.
  Granting a normal Jenkins user Script Console Access is essentially the same
  as giving them Administer rights within Jenkins.
* Can configure any Jenkins setting. It can disable security, reconfigure
  security, even open a backdoor on the host operating system completely outside
  of the Jenkins process.
* Is so powerful because it was originally intended as a debugging interface for
  Jenkins developers.

Do not underestimate the capabilities of the Jenkins Script Console.  Remember,
Sandscape runs within the Jenkins Script Console.

Sandscape plugins make use of classes from Jenkins plugins to configure Jenkins.
Becuase of this, minor updates to Jenkins plugins can easily break Sandscape
plugins.

##### Recommendations

Recommendations for Jenkins:

Due to the tight integration Sandscape plugins require with Jenkins plugins, it
is recommended to adopt a strict process of updating Jenkins and Jenkins
plugins.  This also means disable the [Jenkins Update Site][sc-disable-jus].
The Sandscape project offers a template which can be used for this to [bootstrap
Jenkins and exact versions of plugins][ss-jenkins-bootstrap].  The Jenkins
bootstrapper also supports generating system packages for the Jenkins master.

Recommendations for Sandscape:

* It is _highly recommended_ that before you configure sandscape on your Jenkins
  instance, you review all of the source code.
* Mirror the Sandscape source code into a place you fully control.  This way
  updates to Sandscape will not go unreviewed.

Recommendations for Sandscape plugins:

* Before using any Sandscape plugin, you should completely review and understand
  its source code.  Sandscape plugins execute in the Jenkins Script Console as
  well so the same warnings above apply to them.
* Mirror any Sandscape plugin you plan to use into a place you fully control.
  This is so updates to the plugin sources don't affect your configuration and
  don't go unreviewed.

# Getting started

To set up Sandscape, clone [the Sandscape init repository][ss] and execute:

    git clone https://github.com/sandscape/sandscape.git
    cd sandscape/
    export JENKINS_CREDENTIALS="someuser:somepassword"
    export JENKINS_WEB="https://jenkins.example.com/"
    ./setup_sandscape.sh

`JENKINS_CREDENTIALS` must contain the credentials of a Jenkins administrator
and `JENKINS_WEB` is the location to an existing Jenkins instance.

Sandscape will not make changes to your Jenkins installation without a
`config.json` file, which dictates the configuration of a Jenkins instance.

### Definitions

* Sandscape - A set of Jenkins Script Console scripts used to provide support
  for Sandscape plugins.  It reads the `sandscape-config.json` user
  configuration, creates Groovy bindings for the configuration and Sandscape
  plugins, downloads any missing Sandscape plugins, and then executes the
  Sandscape plugins in the order in which they're defined.  Sandscape itself
  does not itself update any settings on the Jenkins instance.
* Sandscape plugins - Simple groovy scripts designed to be run within the
  Jenkins Script Console but called from Sandscape.  Sandscape plugins are
  scripts that actually configure Jenkins settings of the running Jenkins
  instance.

Sandscape provides the following support for Sandscape plugins:

* Ensures Jenkins does not have Shutdown Mode enabled.  No configuration should
  be updated while Shutdown Mode is active.
* Makes available [helpful functions and objects](docs/bindings.md) to plugins
  as Groovy bindings.
* Reads, validates, and makes available `sandscape-config.json` user
  configuration to plugins.  The plugins will use this configuration to
  configure the Jenkins instance.

### What happens when Sandscape executes?

Sandscape is typically called either from an [init hook][jenkins-hook] or the
Jenkins Script Console.  The following operations occur in order.

1. Something...

[![Creative Commons License][cc-img]][cc-by-sa] This documentation is licensed
under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License][cc-by-sa].  See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

[cc-by-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[cc-img]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/80x15.png
[jenkins-hook]: https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Groovy+Hook+Script
[jenkins-sc]: https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Jenkins+Script+Console
[sc-disable-jus]: https://github.com/samrocketman/jenkins-script-console-scripts/blob/master/disable-all-update-sites.groovy
[ss-jenkins-bootstrap]: https://github.com/sandscape/jenkins-bootstrap
[ss]: https://github.com/sandscape/sandscape
[youtube-sc]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T1x2kCGRY1w
